**Uniform distribution:**
The uniform distribution, also known as the rectangular distribution, contains values that are equally distributed in the range between the smallest value and the largest value. In a uniform distribution, every value is equally
likely.

**Normal distribution:**
The **normal distribution** (also called the **bell curve**) is the most common probability distribution. It is **symmetric** and **centered around the mean**.
- The highest point is at the **mean** (average value).
- Most values cluster around the mean, with fewer values as you move further away.

**Exponential distribution:**
The **exponential distribution** models the time between random events that happen **continuously and independently** at a constant rate.

---
Normal distribution:
- Bell-shaped
- Symmetrical
- Mean=median=mode
- Location is determined by the mean, μ
- Spread is determined by the standard deviation, σ
- The random variable has an infinite theoretical range: + inf to -inf

---
f(X) = (1 / sqrt(2π) * σ) * e ^ (-0.5 * ((X - μ) / σ)^2)
μ = the population mean
σ = the population standard deviation
X = any value of the continuous variable

Changing μ shifts the distribution left or right.
Changing σ increases or decreases the spread.

Any normal distribution (with any mean μ and standard deviation σ) can be transformed into the standardized normal distribution (Z):
Z = (X - μ) / σ. The standardized normal distribution (Z) has a
mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1

---
**Finding Normal Probabilities**
If we are given a mean (μ) and standard deviation (σ), we can find Normal Probabilty.
We should first use Z = (X - μ) / σ to make the distribution standard. Then we find the probabilty proper to this from the table. 
The value within the table gives the probability from Z = -inf up to the desired Z value.

----
**Given a Normal Probability Find the X Value:**
• Steps to find the X value for a known probability:
1. Find the Z value for the known probability
2. Convert to X units using the formula: X =  μ + Zσ.

Basically, according to given probabilty (using the table), we find Z. Then we use the formula above to calculate X. (mean and standard deviation are given already).