**Mean Formula:**

***μ = sum(x_i) / n***

**Median:**
 In an ordered array, the median is the “middle” number (50% above, 50% below).

**The Mode:**
Value that occurs most often.

**Midrange:**
The number exactly midway between a lowest-valued data, L, and a highest-valued data,
H. It is found by averaging the low and the high values: midrange = (L+H) / 2.

----
There are 4 kinds of variation: Range, Variance, Standard Deviation, Coefficient of variation.
range = x(largest) - x(smallest).

---
**Sample Variance Formula:**

s² = (1 / (n - 1)) * ∑(xᵢ - x̄)²

Where:

- s² = sample variance
- n = number of sample data points
- xᵢ = each individual data point
- x̄ = sample mean
- ∑ = summation across all data points

This formula measures the average squared deviation from the sample mean.

---
The **Sample Standard Deviation** formula is:

s = √( (1 / (n - 1)) * ∑(xᵢ - x̄)² )

Where:

- s = sample standard deviation
- n = number of sample data points
- xᵢ = each individual data point
- x̄ = sample mean
- ∑ = summation across all data points

This formula gives the square root of the sample variance, representing the average distance of each data point from the sample mean.

----
The Z-score formula is:

z = (x - μ) / σ

Where:

- z = Z-score
- x = data point
- μ = mean of the population
- σ = standard deviation of the population

This formula shows how many standard deviations a data point is from the mean.


|Z| < 1 for 68% of data
|Z| < 2 for 95% of data
|Z| < 3 for 99.7% of data

**Note: If we are given Z and want to find P(..), we shatter Z and find the number inside the table for P.
However, if we want to find Z and given P(..), we just need to search this value inside the table without shattering anything.**

---
**Population variance:**
The **Population Variance** formula is:

σ² = (1 / N) * ∑(xᵢ - μ)²

Where:

- σ² = population variance
- N = number of data points in the population
- xᵢ = each individual data point
- μ = population mean
---
The **Population Standard Deviation** formula is:

σ = √(1 / N) * ∑(xᵢ - μ)²

Where:

- σ = population standard deviation
- N = number of data points in the population
- xᵢ = each individual data point
- μ = population mean

This formula calculates the average distance of each data point from the population mean.

---

Left-skewed: **Mean** < **Median**
Right-Skewed: **Mean** > **Median**
Symmetric(normal distribution): **Mean** = **Median**

---
The **Covariance** formula is:
cov (X, Y) = (1/n-1) * ∑((xᵢ - x') * (yᵢ - y'))
The covariance measures the strength of the linear relationship between two
numerical variables
Covariance between two variables:

cov(X,Y) > 0
 X and Y tend to move in the same direction
 
cov(X,Y) < 0
 X and Y tend to move in opposite directions
 
cov(X,Y) = 0
 X and Y are independent

----
**Sample coefficient of correlation:**
r = cov(X, Y) / (Sx * Sy)

Sx = sqrt( (1/n-1) * ∑(xᵢ - x')^2 )
Sx = sqrt( (1/n-1) * ∑(yᵢ - y')^2 )